************
Introduction
************

Increasing demand for high definition and ultra-high definition video,
along with an increasing desire for video on demand has led to
exponential growth in demand for bandwidth and storage requirements.
These challenges can be met by the new High Efficiency Video Coding
(HEVC) standard, also known as H.265. The x265 HEVC encoder project was
launched by MulticoreWare in 2013, aiming to provide the most efficient,
highest performance HEVC video encoder.

About HEVC
==========

The High Efficiency Video Coding (HEVC) was developed by the ISO/IEC
Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG) and ITU-T Video Coding Experts Group
(VCEG), through their Joint Collaborative Team on Video Coding (JCT-VC).
HEVC is also known as ISO/IEC 23008-2 MPEG-H Part 2 and ITU-T H.265.
HEVC provides superior video quality and up to twice the data
compression as the previous standard (H.264/MPEG-4 AVC).  HEVC can
support 8K Ultra High Definition video, with a picture size up to
8192x4320 pixels.

About x265
==========

The primary objective of x265 is to become the best H.265/HEVC encoder
available anywhere, offering the highest compression efficiency and the
highest performance on a wide variety of hardware platforms. The x265
encoder is available as an open source library, published under the
GPLv2 license. It is also available under a commercial license, enabling
commercial companies to utilize and distribute x265 in their solutions
without being subject to the restrictions of the GPL license.

x265 is developed by `MulticoreWare <http://www.multicorewareinc.com>`_,
leaders in high performance software solutions, with backing from
leading video technology providers including `Telestream
<http://www.telestream.com>`_ and `Doremi Labs
<http://www.doremilabs.com>`_ (and other companies who want to remain
anonymous at this time), and with contributions from open source
developers.  x265 leverages many of the outstanding video encoding
features and optimizations from the x264 AVC encoder project.

The x265 software is available for free under the GNU GPL 2 license,
from https://bitbucket.org/multicoreware/x265_git.  For commercial companies
that wish to distribute x265 without being subject to the open source
requirements of the GPL 2 license, commercial licenses are available
with competitive terms.  Contact license @ x265.com to inquire about
commercial license terms.  

While x265 is primarily designed as a video encoder software library, a
command-line executable is provided to facilitate testing and
development.  We expect x265 to be utilized in many leading video
hardware and software products and services in the coming months.

LEGAL NOTICES
=============

The x265 software is owned and copyrighted by MulticoreWare, Inc.
MulticoreWare is committed to offering the x265 software under the GNU
GPL v2 license.  Companies who do not wish to integrate the x265
Software in their products under the terms of the GPL license can
contact MulticoreWare (license @ x265.com) to obtain a commercial
license agreement.  Companies who use x265 under the GPL may also wish
to work with MulticoreWare to accelerate the development of specific
features or optimized support for specific hardware or software
platforms, or to contract for support.

The GNU GPL v2 license or the x265 commercial license agreement govern
your rights to access the copyrighted x265 software source code, but do
not cover any patents that may be applicable to the function of binary
executable software created from the x265 source code.  You are
responsible for understanding the laws in your country, and for
licensing all applicable patent rights needed for use or distribution of
software applications created from the x265 source code.  A good place
to start is with the `Motion Picture Experts Group - Licensing Authority
- HEVC Licensing Program <http://www.mpegla.com/main/PID/HEVC/default.aspx>`_.

x265 is a registered trademark of MulticoreWare, Inc.  The X265 logo is
a trademark of MulticoreWare, and may only be used with explicit written
permission.  All rights reserved.
